in this final video of the four I'll be
looking at the multiplier rail which you
can see in front of you looking at its
features and how to have you use it its
final rail is a multiplier it's
essentially used for sea fishing off
slightly fishing for very very big fish
unlike the other reels which we've
looked at this fits on top of the rod
and so you either have to hold the rod
whilst you're fishing or you have to
having some kind of clump he says the
same features as the fixed bull reel
with a bait runner which we talked about
a moment ago this is the clients brother
when you wind the handle round this goes
backwards and forwards so you get a nice
even distribution of line on the spool
this little knob is the bait runner
register
he's quite simply a friction clutch on
this one but very very expensive reels
of course have the system of magnets
inside here which makes them very very
very very explosive indeed open 2,000
pounds in some cases on the other side
is the main clutch adjustment since
whilst are think you can see here so
that when you're playing a fish you can
adjust this with your thumb so increase
the drug
so before you cast out with this you
slacking off the bake run a clutch so
the spool is very free running you would
think that with a huge sea fishing
weight and a great lump of bait on and a
stiff shot rod you could fling the bait
a hundred yards or more which of course
is perfectly true but the big problem is
as the bait and the weight slow down
towards the end of the cast and almost
come to a stop because when they hit the
water
the real continues to run and you get an
overrun and the huge bird's nest on here
so as the bait approaches the water you
have to slow this down by feathering it
with your thumb as this is whirring
around at the fair or lick then if you
press too hard with your thumb you'll
get a friction burn on the end some
people use a sort of rubber finger which
they've cut off a pair of kitchen gloves
and they put it on their thumb to
prevent that from happening so when you
finish casting you're pushing the little
knob which brings the bait runner into
effect you tighten up the bait runner
for the real then a little bit of drug
on it when a fish is caught
turn the handle half a turn that little
knob comes out and you're then on the
main clutch with much more drag slow the
fish down I say you can adjust this drug
when you're playing the fish by using
this staffing here so let's think s
himself multiplier real well there are
all six waves which we've looked at in
this little series of four on reels I
hope you found it very useful the
important thing is to enjoy your fishing
look after the fishy catch so that other
people can catch them and hopefully one
day you'll cut someone a little bit
bigger I'll say goodbye